---
title: SaaS Quick Start Guide
---

## Welcome to FeatureBase!

Follow the guide outlined below for a hands-on demonstration of low-latency queries at scale using our FeatureBase SaaS platform. As you work through the guide, please note any questions or feedback that you may have for the Molecula team. We’re always looking for ways to improve the experience!

In this demonstration you will:

1. Sign up to access FeatureBase
2. Create a new FeatureBase deployment
3. Restore two large-scale datasets into the deployment
4. Run a set of analytics queries

If you run into any roadblocks or have questions throughout the demonstration, please reach out to your Molecula Representative.

## Sign-Up Overview

Please click on the sign up link in your invitation email. You’ll be taken to the sign-up page. You will see your email pre-filled in the application:

[ Figure 1. Invitation | IMAGE GOES HERE ]

You will be instructed to create a password with instant feedback based on password requirements:

[ Figure 2. Create Password | IMAGE GOES HERE ]

After creating a password, a verify email screen will appear. A confirmation code will be sent to your email. Please enter that code to complete sign up. If you don’t complete this step, this screen will also be shown again the next time you attempt to log in.

[ Figure 3. Verify Email | IMAGE GOES HERE ]

Now that you are signed up, you will have access to FeatureBase for seven days. After seven days, you will no longer be able to log in with your credentials. If you encounter any problems during this process or would like to reactivate your account contact [support@molecula.com](support@molecula.com).

[ Figure 4. SaaS Welcome | IMAGE GOES HERE ]

## Configuring your environment

In order to use our application, you’ll need data. In a real-life situation, the Molecula team will provide guided onboarding and data modeling for our organization’s data. In this exercise, we’ll be working with curated demo data to showcase the low-latency capabilities of FeatureBase. Instructions to run the script that will deploy FeatureBase and load the demo data are laid out below.

### Instructions for MacOS:

1. Download the “Molecula_Sandbox.sh” script attached in your email or found here to the “Downloads” folder in your local environment.
  
2. Open the “Terminal” application that exists on your mac.
  2.1. You can search for it by clicking the magnifying glass in the top right corner and typing “terminal” . It looks like this:
  
3. Complete steps 4- 7 by copying commands and pasting them into the terminal window.
  
4. Navigate to where the script was downloaded by typing or pasting this command in Terminal and pressing ‘ENTER’
  
  ```
  cd Downloads
  ```
  
5. Verify you can see the Molecula_Sandbox.sh file by typing the command below and pressing enter
  
  ```
  ls -lrt
  ```
  
6. In order to run the script, you must first type the command below in Terminal and press enter:
  
  ```
  chmod +x Molecula_Sandbox.sh
  ```
  
7. Run the script by typing the command below in Terminal and press enter:
  
  1. `zsh Molecula_Sandbox.sh`
    
  2. Enter Username (email)
    
  3. Enter Password (created during UI sign up).
    
    **NOTE:** this will not show up visibly in the terminal, but it’s there! This to protect your information.
    
8. Navigate back to the web application ([https://app.molecula.cloud](https://app.molecula.cloud/)) to check on your deployment.
  
9. The script is now configuring your environment which will take approximately 30 minutes.
  

[Figure 4. SaaS Homepage | IMAGE GOES HERE ]

**This is a great time to grab a cup of coffee or reply to all those waiting Slack messages! A new deployment is spinning up and over 1B records are loading.**

While the deployment is spinning up, you will see messages in Terminal and in Cloud Manager as the status progresses. The status will show as ‘CREATING’ while the deployment is spinning up and  ‘RUNNING’ when the process is done.

[Figure 5. Deployment Status CREATING | IMAGE GOES HERE ]

[ Figure 6. Deployment status RUNNING | IMAGE GOES HERE ]

Once the deployment is ‘RUNNING’ data will start loading into the deployment. After about 30 minutes, check the “Tables” section of the application to see the two tables that have been restored into the deployment. One table is called ‘cseg’, short for customer segmentation, and the other is called ‘skills’. A description of each table is also listed. In the next section, we will perform a variety of common analytical queries on both datasets.

[ Figure 7. Tables Restored | IMAGE GOES HERE ]

## Introduction to SaaS Environment and Test Dataset

In a real-world situation, a Molecula expert will work with your organization to appropriately model data for your use cases in FeatureBase. To give you an idea of the process, this tutorial will walk you through how to interact with complex data in FeatureBase using data from the Customer Segmentation (cseg) dataset.

### Data Exploration of Customer Segmentation Feature Table

It’s always a good idea to understand what the dataset you’re working with contains before you get started. To do this, click on the ‘Tables’ section in the application to display the names of the tables in your deployment.

[ Figure 8. Tables | IMAGE GOES HERE ]

Click on a table to show its contents. FeatureBase can ingest and represent a wide range of field types. One that may not be familiar is the **SET** field. **SET** fields are multi-valued and allow FeatureBase to collapse traditional data models, like the star schema, by efficiently storing multiple values for a single field.

[ Figure 9. Table Summary - CSEG | IMAGE GOES HERE ]

To understand the shape of the data contained in the customer dataset that was preloaded into this environment. First, navigate to the Query page by clicking “Query” on the left navigation bar. 

Let’s start by running a simple SQL statement to extract 10 records to explore.

```sql
SELECT * FROM cseg LIMIT 10;
```

Viewing this tabular output we can see each record contains several fields (attributes) and data types. Scroll left and right in the application to explore the full list of fields. For example, **names** and **cities** are captured in **STRING** fields. Income is captured in an **INT** field that will allow for range queries. You can also see that “education” is a SET field with multiple values in a single field.

[ Figure 10. Query select 10 | IMAGE GOES HERE ]

Next, let’s check the full scale of this dataset by using another familiar SQL statement, the **COUNT**.

```sql
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM cseg;
```

This query will return the **COUNT** of records in the entire table and demonstrates we are working with a dataset of 1 billion records. Each record in the cseg table has 16 attributes.

[ Figure 11. Query count | IMAGE GOES HERE ]

### Performing Large Aggregations

Aggregation workflows often require the ability to **SUM** large amounts of individual **INT** elements. This could be transaction amounts such as dollars (decimals), whole integers (counts, bandwidth), or any variation requiring a **SUM** across many records. In this example, we will **SUM** the income field across all 1 billion records.

```sql
SELECT SUM(income) FROM cseg;
```

[ Figure 12. Query sum | IMAGE GOES HERE ]

It is unlikely to need to SUM in this manner across all records. It is much more common to introduce complex conditions to SUM a segment of records that meets specified criteria.

Here we introduce comparative and logical operators including **GREATER THAN**, **AND**, and **OR**. 

```sql
SELECT SUM(income) 
FROM cseg 
WHERE income > 5000 AND age = 45 AND skills='Ms Office' OR skills='Excel';
```

As you can see, the latency is in the sub-second time frame even when using complex searching criteria through 1 billion records.

[ Figure 13. query sum complex | IMAGE GOES HERE ]

**NOTE:**

When aggregating over a SET field, values for a record will be included in multiple groups if not excluded in the query. For example, when SUM(income) is used with a GROUP BY of “education”, income for a record with both ‘Bachelor’s degree’ and ‘High school diploma or GED’ will be included in both groups.

It is common for a single person to have multiple values for a field that may seem contradictory or redundant, like “education”. This may be due to differences in status over time as data are collected and aggregated. A person may be categorized as having “education” status of “Some college” and later be categorized as having a “Bachelor’s degree”. When those two data sources are matched up, the person may have multiple values associated with them.

Additionally, aggregations may include the AVERAGE argument.

```sql
SELECT AVG(income) FROM cseg;
```

[ Figure 14. QUERY average | IMAGE GOES HERE ]

### INNER JOINs at Scale

FeatureBase can merge at ingest and eliminate preprocessing in cases where performant **INNER JOIN**s are required. Data from two separate tables or sources can be merged into a single normalized table by matching on a unique key in each dataset. Since FeatureBase can execute queries very quickly, workflows requiring **INNER JOIN**s can be simplified with FeatureBase by merging disparate datasets at ingest. In the following example, we are combining many of the queries in this guide and adding the **INNER JOIN**. 

The **INNER JOIN** is facilitating a **COUNT** of records, or people, are “available for hire” as indicated by  that have a string field true for “available_for_hire” located in the skills table, and have the string field true for “Teaching”. In other words, we would like to count the number of people who are teachers and also available for hire. The latency on this type of **INNER JOIN** at the billion records scale is still sub-second allowing for several interesting data models.

```sql
SELECT count(*) AS count 
FROM cseg AS t1 
INNER JOIN skills AS t2 ON t1._id = t2.id 
WHERE t2.bools = 'available_for_hire' and t1.hobbies = 'Teaching';
```

**NOTE:** Included in the stock dataset is a table known as skills, please use the discovery queries to take a look at it!

[ Figure 15. QUERY INNER JOIN | IMAGE GOES HERE ]

### Grouping with Complex Conditions and Aggregating

Another query commonly seen in aggregation-related use cases is the **GROUP BY**. For example, let’s group by the hobbies counting only those with ultimate count above 200,000,000.

```sql
SELECT hobbies, COUNT(*) 
FROM cseg 
GROUP BY hobbies HAVING count > 200000000;
```

[ Figure 16. QUERY GROUP BY | IMAGE GOES HERE ]

Another useful facet of **GROUP BY** is the ability to add an aggregate argument and utilize the low latency aggregation in another capacity.

```sql
SELECT education, SUM(income) 
FROM cseg 
WHERE age=18 
GROUP BY education; 
```

[ Figure 17. QUERY group by 2 | IMAGE GOES HERE ]

### TopK - A FeatureBase Superpower

Ranking queries are notorious for being computationally intensive - aka slow. Some solutions will use statistics to speed up a ranking query by approximating the true results, but that’s not always a desirable option. In addition to SQL, FeatureBase has a native language called PQL. In PQL, TopK queries can be run to return exact results in milliseconds. 

This query returns the top five hobbies across all customers from the cseg table, sifting through a billion records in 117.2ms.

```
[cseg]TopK(hobbies, k=5)
```

[ Figure 18. QUERY TOPK | IMAGE GOES HERE ]

More complex, the next query returns the top ten hobbies among females who also like scuba diving from the cseg table in milliseconds. Even when adding complex filtering, the **TopK** queries can be run for exact results at scale without impacting query latency.

```
[cseg]TopK(hobbies, k=10, filter=Intersect(Row(sex=Female),Row(hobbies='Scuba Diving')))
```

[ Figure 19. QUERY TOPK2 | IMAGE GOES HERE ]

**NOTE:** At this point, we encourage you to mix and match segmentation criteria to experience low-latency queries even as complex conditions are added.

Note that we don’t currently support full SQL, but are working toward expanding SQL functionality. For example, the AVERAGE function is not currently supported in GROUP BY queries and will be added soon.

If you have issues with your queries, please contact Molecula Representative. FeatureBase has a native language, called PQL, and we can help you translate your SQL queries to get the desired results.

## What’s Next?

We hope that this hands-on experience has further demonstrated the power of FeatureBase to power real-time analytics workflows at scale. While this example focused on a customer segmentation use case, the same type of workflows are often used in anomaly detection or business process optimization use cases and continues to perform as workloads grow to trillions of records. Additionally, FeatureBase excels at combining streaming and historical data in real-time, allowing you to analyze data as soon at is available in FeatureBase with no need for time-consuming preprocessing or preaggregation. From here, partner with your Molecula representative to better understand how FeatureBase will work for your organization’s specific needs.

## Queries

### Data Exploration 

```sql
SELECT * FROM cseg LIMIT 10;
```

```sql
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM cseg;
```

### Complex Segmentation 

```sql
SELECT count(*) FROM cseg WHERE age = 45 AND income>50000 AND skills='Ms Office' OR skills='Excel';
```

### Aggregations

```sql
SELECT SUM(income) FROM cseg;
```

```sql
SELECT SUM(income) FROM cseg where income > 5000;
```

```sql
SELECT AVG(income) FROM cseg;
```

### JOINS

```sql
SELECT count(*) AS count 
FROM cseg AS t1 
INNER JOIN skills AS t2 ON t1._id = t2.id 
WHERE t2.bools = 'available_for_hire' AND t1.hobbies = 'Teaching';
```

### Grouping with Complex Conditions

```sql
SELECT hobbies, count(*) 
FROM cseg 
GROUP BY hobbies 
HAVING count > 200000000;
```

### Top K 

```
[cseg]TopK(hobbies, k=5)
```

```
[cseg]TopK(hobbies, k=10, filter=Intersect(Row(sex=Female),Row(hobbies='Scuba Diving')))
```

## Spinning Down a Deployment

When you have completed the trial, please take a few minutes to spin down your deployment. If you do not spin it down, it will be done after 7 days by the Molecula team.

First, delete the tables in the deployment in the ‘Tables’ tab. Click the three dots and select ‘Delete’

[ Figure 20. Delete table | IMAGE GOES HERE ]

Confirm the deletion by typing ‘DELETE’ into the interface. Repeat for each table in the deployment.

[ Figure 21. Delete table confirm | IMAGE GOES HERE ]

Repeat the process in the Cloud Manager for each deployment that you want to spin down. It takes a few minutes longer to delete a deployment than it does for a typical table.

[ Figure 22. Delete deployment | IMAGE GOES HERE ]

[ Figure 23. Delete deployment confirm | IMAGE GOES HERE ]
