---
id: saasintroduction
title: SaaS Introduction
sidebar_label: Introduction
---

 **⚠ WARNING:** This page contains information that only applies to Molecula's SaaS offering. Additionally, this page represents a work in progress that is subject to frequent changes. 

Welcome to Molecula! Here you will find various materials to help you use and operate our SaaS offering of FeatureBase. To navigate through the documentation you can use the navigation toolbar to the left of this section, or you can use the search bar in the upper right hand corner.

Our documentation structure is broken out into categories that will help you understand and learn how to use the tool. As such, our documentation is broken into the following categories:

1. Getting Started — Introduction to FeatureBase and how to start using the product.
2. Tutorials — Hands-on guides for developers implementing and operating FeatureBase across various use cases and scenarios.
3. Explanations — Background information and discussion of higher level topics.
4. Create a Deployment - Descriptions and references on how you will create your FeatureBase Instances
5. Ingest Data — Descriptions and references on how data is modeled and loaded into your deployments
6. Consume Data — Descriptions and references on the various ways you can consume your data once it’s loaded
7. Manage Data — Descriptions and references on how monitor and maintain your data over time
8. Reference Documentation — Exhaustive technical description of APIs, security posture, operations, and much more.

## FeatureBase Overview

FeatureBase is a feature-oriented database platform that powers real-time analytics and machine learning applications by simultaneously executing low-latency, high-throughput, and highly concurrent workloads.Similar to the evolution of data formats from row-oriented to columnar, FeatureBase further evolves columnar into a feature-oriented format that makes each distinct data value individually addressable (accessible, readable, writable and retrievable). 

Our novel approach minimizes I/O on queries by allowing the database engine to read and write exactly the data it needs and intelligently compress that data in memory. The result is a step-function improvement in analytical workloads!

## Key Features

- Fully-managed database offering with simple “click to deploy” that avoids the pain of infrastructure procurement and maintenance.

- Low-latency Database designed for queries across billions of records without impact from large ingest streams that are both inserting and updating records.

- Graphical User Interface support for Deployment sizing and Creation, Ingest Configuration, and query data exploration.

- Programatic access to all features within the tools over HTTPS

- Streaming ingest that allows you to push records when they are ready and without having to open up your datacenter

For those new to Molecula, we recommend the starting with the [Getting Started](/saas/saas-tutorials/saasquickstart) tutorial.


