---
title: Cloud users
---

 **⚠ WARNING:** This page contains information that only applies to FeatureBase Cloud. Additionally, this page represents a work in progress that is subject to frequent changes.

A user is a unique entity in your organization that is tied to an email. Users' usernames will be their email. An important aspect in managing your organization is managing the users who have access to it. It is important to note that an email can only actively belong to one organization at a time. User management is conducted in the “Manage users” page (under “Organization”) located in the “Configuration” section on the left hand navigation bar. This page will show you all of the users in your organization, as well as all of the invitations sent to other users. You may search for users by username/email and click on individual users to see their unique details. If you click on your own username, you will be able to modify some of your personal information.

## User Statuses
There are a couple of different statuses a user can have once they have accepted an invitation:

|Status | Description  |
| --- | ----------- |
|Active           |  The status a user has once accepting an invitation to an organization. This status implies they are able to use the tool freely as their permissions allow. A user can only be Active in one organization at a time. |
|Deactivated           |  The status a user has if they have been deactivated by an admin in their organization. This status means the user is blocked from successfully logging in and using the tool. Users can reactivated back to “Active” or accept invitations to other organization (and become “Left”). |
|Left           |  The status a user has if they accepted an invitation to another organization. This means they cannot login or access the organization in any way, and would need to be invited again to gain access. |

## Inviting Users
If you have sufficient permissions, you will  be able to generate invitations from the “Manage users” page by clicking “Invite New User”. An email address is all that is required in order to send an invitation. Clicking “Send Invitation” will generate an invite email with an invitation link and send it to the address passed. These invites are valid for 7 days and can no longer be accepted after that time. Another invite can be generated to the same address if it is not accepted in time. If an invited user loses or didn’t receive the email, the invitation link can be be copied to your clipboard by clicking the “kebab” menu on the right side of the invitation row. This link can be sent to that users manually. These invitations can also be created programmatically.

**HTTP API Reference:**
```shell
curl --location --request POST 'https://api.featurebase.com/v2/invites' \
--header 'Authorization: Bearer <IdToken>' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data-raw '{
    "email": "<email address>"
}'
```

Upon receiving an invitation, a user will click the link and either sign up, if they are not a current user, or sign in and be prompted to move organizations. Please see [below](/cloud/cloud-configuration/users#moving-organizations) for more information on moving organizations.

## Deactivating Users

If you have sufficient permissions, you may deactivate any user in your organization. A deactivated user has no authorization within the organization. An attempt to log in or access any APIs will result in a `401` explaining the user’s deactivated status. This is useful tool for organizations to protect their themselves from various situations:

- A user is no longer working for the organization

- A user is in a role that no longer needs access

- A user was accidentally granted access

Users will never be permanently deleted from your organization. This is in order to protect your organization and be able to properly audit the system. Additionally, you can reactivate users if, for whatever reason, they require access again.

## Moving Organizations

In certain situations, your company may have multiple organizations with FeatureBase. In this case, you may need to access multiple organizations. You can move between organizations, but can only be “Active” in one at a time. This means every time you need access to another organization, you will need to be invited to it. This is done to safeguard your data and make sure a user can only ever access one organization’s data at a time. This is another layer of protection that ensure no outsiders can access your data. There are a couple of conditions that must be met in order to move organizations

1. A user is not an admin and they are not an owner of any resources (databases, tables, etc.)

2. A user is an admin, they are not an owner of any resources (databases, tables, etc.), and there is another admin in their organization

There are a few tips we recommend if your company has multiple organizations with FeatureBase

1. Create a unique email for each user in each organization

2. Have service accounts that will not switch organizations create resources that are intended to persist for long periods of time
