---
id: tables
title: Tables
sidebar_label: Tables
---

 **⚠ WARNING:** This page contains information that only applies to Molecula's SaaS offering. Additionally, this page represents a work in progress that is subject to frequent changes. 

A table is an object within a deployment that stores related data. A table here is analogous to a table found in a traditional RDBMS.  A table is created and must be uniquely named within a deployment. Table names are immutable. Tables contain data, the data schema (defined by the sources loading them), and a description of the table (defined when the table is created). This makes a table unique in that its complete definition is created by multiple processes. You must create a table before you can ingest data.

## Create A Table

In order to create a table, the following prerequisites must be met:

1. A deployment exists that is in the “Running” state
- Click [here](/saas/createdeployment/createdeployment) to learn how to create a deployment
- Click [here](/saas/saas-reference/controlplaneapi) to see the deployment API docs

In the user interface, click on “Tables” on the left hand navigation bar. You will see a list of all the tables that currently exist. Click “New Table” to create a table. You will be prompted to pick a deployment using a dropdown. This is populated by all the deployments in your organization. You will now type in a table name. The table name must be unique within the deployment and only contain lower case alphanumeric, hyphen and underscore characters. This name is immutable, so it’s important to name it appropriately. Additionally, an optional description of the table can be entered to help existing and new users understand what data the table contains and what its intended purpose is. This can also be accomplished programmatically.


**cURL API Reference:**
```shell
curl --location --request POST 'https://api.molecula.cloud/v1/tables/<deployment_id>' \
--header 'Authorization: <IdToken>' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data-raw '{
    "name": "<table name>",
    "description": "<table description>"    
}'
```

Now that a table exists, you are ready to load data into it. 